Jerry E. Smith has been out rabble-rousing with his new
book, HAARP: The Ultimate Weapon of the Conspiracy.
As sensational as the title seems,
the story he tells is based on an incredible maze
of science, the military, and secrecy.
Jerry built his work upon the work of Dr. Nick Begich,
who offered the first public research into this subject
in his book, Angels Don't Play This HAARP,
written several years ago.
As the story continues to evolve,
the questions about this little known project loom large.
What exactly is HAARP?
Let's see what Jerry has to say.
Can you start with a really brief primer,
so we can get right on to the more current stuff.
Sure, when completed, and now scheduled
for about 2008, it will be the world's largest
radio broadcast station,
but it's not designed to broadcast for human ears.
It uses a unique patented ability
to focus radio frequency energy.
It's designed to put this radio frequency energy
into a spot at the top of the atmosphere.
Let's talk about the spot at the top of the
atmosphere, that doesn't sound, at first glance,
like a good or healthy thing for the atmosphere.
What is this project doing there?
Well, it's a type of device called an ionospheric heater,
which because it heats the ionosphere.
The ionosphere is the outermost layer of the atmosphere.
It stops incoming solar radiation.
It's incredibly important to maintain life on this planet.
You need the ionosphere or we'd all be fried.
What this thing does is it injects energy
into the ionosphere, heating the ionosphere.
This spot is gonna be about two and half miles across,
excuse me, about 2 and a half miles deep
by about 12 miles across by 50 to 90 miles up,
depending on how they're using the antenna field.
HAARP is an antenna field.
It's a field of antennas so arranged as to work
as one big antenna.
This energy injected into the atmosphere
will heat the ionosphere and cause it to rise
and go out into space.
It will change the shape of the ionosphere.
What might be the point of that?
There are a number of technologies.
Basically this injecting energy into the atmosphere
to make it do things is called ionospheric enhancement.
You gotta love that.
(laughing)
Only the military would think that
breaking something makes it better.
Enhancement, okay.
Yeah, so the idea here is that, one of the first things is
if the ionosphere's shape is changed,
you change the way it bounces radio waves.
Long wave and short wave radio bounces off the ionosphere.
Have you ever been traveling in your car
and you pick up an AM radio station
from the other side of the country,
that's because it's bouncing off the ionosphere.
What they can do is if they can intentionally
reshape the ionosphere,
they can change the way it's bouncing.
If they know which radio frequencies are bouncing where
at what time, they can jam worldwide radio communications.
Also, by one of the things that this project
is intended to find out is can they use it to make
what are called artificial ionospheric mirrors.
That is, can you create zones of increased
ion density,
so create an artificial ionosphere
that would bounce radio waves,
so not only can you jam the enemy,
but you can keep your own channels open
by making your own artificial bounce spots.
This would appear to have military applications?
Exactly, exactly.
If you're engaged in a war,
one of the things you wanna do is you wanna cut
the enemy's communication lines.
This would be a brilliant way to do that.
The program was initially funded by the United States Senate
to do something called earth penetrating tomography.
This a brand new science.
It did not exist before 1980.
What it is, it's like CAT scanning the earth.
It's also been described as a dirt radar.
One of the ways of doing this is that with HAARP,
with this injection of energy
into the top of the atmosphere,
this literally blows the atoms, blows the molecules
of the atmosphere apart, breaks them down.
When they break down, they give off a scream
of extremely low frequency radiation.
This is called ELF, extremely low frequency.
These radio waves penetrate deep into the earth
and deep into the sea.
HAARP was funded under counter proliferation studies.
The idea is that if you can get earth penetrating tomography
to work, you can look with this ELF extremely deep,
maybe as much as two miles.
You can find and monitor enemy underground bases for the
manufactuer and launch of weapons of mass destruction.
That was the trust but verify aspect of Star Wars.
Trust but verify.
You can burn a whole in the ionosphere in essence,
or in essence heat it to a point.
You can heat it.
This will create a plasma that will go out into space.
This plasma will be a electrically charged plasma
so that anything coming into it will be fried out.
This is a Star Wars defense shield that anything coming in,
like incoming ICBM's, would pass through this plasma
and have it's electronics shorted out.
Also, the spy satellites travel right at the top
of the atmosphere.
If you punch this up a little bit, it goes into
the zone where the spy satellites are
and you can fry out the enemy's eyes.
What about atmospheric changes?
What about global warming?
Are these issues that play into this?
Those are questions that have been raised since
the world first heard about HAARP.
If you're creating this flow out of space,
if you're moving the atmosphere out,
you're of course creating a lower pressure zone,
you're creating a void that the lower air will fill into.
You may be able to generate winds.
There is some issues about how much weather control
it actually is capable of because here, we're talking about
injecting the energy into the ionosphere,
which is the top of the atmosphere,
where the weather happens in the troposphere
at the bottom of the atmosphere.
There's many miles distance between these two regions.
One of the applications
in the original patent,
the patent speculated that you could create
artificial lenses in the atmosphere.
This is like, imagine if you will, a magnifying glass,
and on a sunny day you can use a magnifying glass
to start fires.
So, the idea is they may be able to create artificial
magnifying glass lenses in the upper atmosphere
that would direct more solar energy into the lower
atmosphere and heat it up,
which would then allow you to move it around.
If you can move the lower atmosphere around,
then you can move the jet stream,
and if you can move the jet stream,
then you can dial up either floods or droughts at will.
I'm going to ask you this one question
and then we'll go back to that,
is this technology already developed sufficiently where that
could be done, theoretically, at this time already?
I believe that's an unknown.
What we have, the HAARP side is still under construction.
They started the project around 1990.
They started building the site which is in
southeastern Alaska, about 1993.
It's currently not scheduled for completion until late 1997,
or sometime in the summer of '98.
You mean 2008?
Yeah, 2008. I'm sorry, yeah.
You were a decade back.
(laughing)
It's hard to talk and think at the same time.
It should be completed in 2007, 2008?
Right, right in there. We don't really know
what its output is capable of until they do it.
That's the aspect of this thing,
is this thing is a scientific project to do something
that's never been done before.
Whenever you're doing something that's never been done
before, there are all kinds of unknowns.
This subject often falls under
he subject of conspiracy theory, but in essence, there are
patent trails that are indicating that all of these
technologies are what are under construction, basically.
Right, these patent trails are very
controversial in that there was a company
named APTI, originally Arco Power Technologies Incorporated
and the "Arco" in the name kind of revealed too much,
so they changed it to
Advanced Power Technologies Incorporated.
APTI got bought by E Systems, one of the largest
of the U.S. defense contractors,
and then E Systems got bought by Ratheon,
which is like the third or so largest,
certainly within the top ten.
Then recently, Ratheon has sold E Systems
to British Aerospace, or now BAE Systems.
So, BAE Systems currently has the contract
to finish the project.
The chain of custody on these things,
the area of interest is that there are these patents
that APTI, A-P-T-I created.
These patents are for a field of antennas
40 miles on a side.
That would have a tremendous impact on the environment.
HAARP project is, at the moment, it's 1,000 feet on one side
by 1,200 feet on the other.
The HAARP people say, "Oh no, we have nothing
"whatsoever to do with those patents.
"It's not us, we're not doing that."
Except that, the people who own those patents
get the contract because it is a unique item.
Yes, it is a ionospheric heater,
and there are ionospheric heaters around the planet.
There are 20 or 30 of them in operation,
but only HAARP has the ability to focus the engery
from the field into a spot in the atmosphere.
That uniqueness is in those patents.
Now, this project, if you listen to HAARP's
public releases, for example,
is a simple private sector project.
Absolutely.
But I'm hearing military contractors
at each stage here involved.
Oh yeah.
Military contractors. Who has the contract right now?
British Aerospace North America.
It's being built by their electronic
and information warfare division.
(laughing)
Sounds friendly.
The project management is from an office in DARPA.
DARPA is the defense advanced research projects agency.
If you've ever seen the James Bond films,
you probably remember Q, the old guy who comes up
with all these crazy gadgets.
Imagine Q having 10,000 employees
and a 4 billion dollar budget.
That's DARPA.
DARPA is the cutting edge of military technology.
There are eight directorates within DARPA.
HAARP is being directed by the TTO,
the tactical technical office.
Now, what their job is, is developing
what are called force multipliers.
To give you an idea of what a force multiplier is,
imagine you're going to invade Grenada,
and you've got a fleet of ships,
but you don't want the Grenadians to know
that you have these fleet of ships out there,
so you create fogs and clouds to hide your ships in.
Well, the fogs and clouds are force multipliers
because your force can sneak in and is more forceful
because of having this.
Ah, force multiplier. Yes.
So, HAARP is being built by guys who's job it is
to make force multipliers.
This turns up constantly in the HAARP literature.
The mission head, the guy in charge of HAARP,
at DARPA and the TTO, is Dr. Sheldon Meth.
He runs four projects.
Two are laser development projects.
Ones called laser star and one is called air laser.
Air laser is an air born laser weapon.
Laser star, I've never been able
to figure out quite what it is.
His third project is, I read the literature on it repeatedly
and I cannot figure it out,
but its code name, the name for the project,
is an acronym like HAARP is A-A-R-P,
Well, this is Mayhem.
The "M" is munition, I figured that part out.
HAARP, the civilian science project,
is being developed by a guy
who's working on two weapon laser projects
and some sort of a munition named Mayhem.
There are also universities involved,
MIT, UCLA, some very prestigious universities
in terms of technological development.
Who's involved in the project changes from year to year,
but it's been running about 12 to 16 universities,
Some nongovernmental organizations, NGO's,
such as SRI, Stanford Research.
There are some big players in this thing.
Again, you're right, it appears to be civilian.
They insist that it is completely above board,
there's nothing secret about it,
it's just a little civilian research installation
out in Alaska, it's not a harm to anybody,
it's not a weapon, don't look behind the green curtain.
Don't worry about it.
Don't look behind the green curtain.
Yet, it is repeatedly listed as one of the top
under-reported stories and subjects.
Obviously the "don't look behind the green curtain"
is working.
It's had very minimal reportage
in the mainstream press.
The way mainstream press works is
the local newspaper covers local stories.
So, you have national news.
National news doesn't cover--
You know, you got 30 minutes, you got a few seconds
for each of 20 stories they run,
and if you don't have good pictures,
if it doesn't have an immediacy,
if it doesn't have some sort of visceral,
there are 20 people dead,
or a ferry has sunk, it doesn't get air time.
HAARP did appear in Popular Science.
That's about as big as it got.
Considering the nature of the agencies involved,
the university involvement, etc.,
it certainly would seem under-reported.
Let's take the lineage of the science
back a little bit further.
There was initially involvement also
with the Russian govermnment
before Perestroika.
Right, right.
Can you talk about that a little bit?
This appears to be pure Star Wars.
What we know is that HAARP says
we're not the APTI patents,
but it's clear that they are the APTI patents.
Now, the project at APTI was headed up by
a Dr. Bernard Eastlund.
Bernard Eastlund has been working on weapons systems
that ARCO can make money from for decades.
One of his earlier patents, which is very similar to HAARP,
is a patent for creating plasmas at the top
of the atmosphere and sending those plasmas out into space.
The plasmas would then be electrically charged clouds
that would get caught between the magnetic lines of force
and any sort of IBM or spacecraft coming through it
would get fried out.
He applied for that about 1981,
received it in about 1991,
and as soon as he received that
he went on to do the HAARP patents.
The HAARP patents, there's 12 of them in the portfolio.
Again, it's controversial as to how this thing started.
There are several different people who said,
"It was my idea!"
There's a guy named Jim Phelps,
which I find it an interesting name
because thats the head of the mission impossible force,
Jim Phelps at DARPA said it was his idea,
and that he got his people at DARPA to push for this thing.
Meanwhile, some guys at the Air Force say
that they had coffee and donuts one morning
with the guys at naval research at ONR
and they kicked this idea around and decide,
"Hey, this sounds like something we need,"
and they went over to DARPA and asked DARPA,
"Hey, can you help us with this thing?"
Meanwhile, Senator Ted Stevens, who is
the head of the defense
appropriations committee in the Senate,
he says that scientists from the
University of Alaska came to him and said,
"We think we can harness the power
"of the Aurora for civilian good."
They describe to him--
This brings us back to one of the other uses for this thing,
is with radio, an antenna has to be longer
than the wave you're generating.
The lower the frequency, the longer the wave.
To generate really, really, really low frequencies, like
3 hertz, 12 hertz, you have to have antennas
tens of thousands of miles long,
and it's not practical to do that.
The Navy got in on this project.
The ONR guy--
The civilian
project.
Yes.
This coffee and donuts beginning of it, as the Navy say,
"Hey, we need some way to talk to
"our deeply submerged submarines.
"We need to create an antenna 30,000 miles long.
"Where are we gonna get one?"
Well, there is the electrojet.
The sun is an ongoing nuclear explosion
blowing bits of atoms at the earth.
These bits of atoms, when they reach the earth,
they get trapped in the magnetic lines of force
around the earth.
They bounce back and forth between the lines,
they spiral around the lines, and they bounce back and forth
from the north pole to the south pole,
thousands of miles out in space.
As they're bouncing back and forth,
the earth gets an electrical charge.
They build up a charge, kind of like
rubbing a cat on a windy day.
Just as the cat is gonna discharge by clawing you for it,
this flow of electrons comes back to earth at the poles
and it comes in so hot, so hard, so fast,
it heats the atmosphere up causing it to glow.
That's the northern lights, that's the Aurora.
This flow of electrons is called the electrojet.
The Navy got this bright idea,
why don't we tune the electrojet?
Why don't we turn the electrojet into a virtual antenna
40,000 miles long and then we can talk
to submarines five miles down?
This begs the question,
if you're talking to submarines five miles down,
what is it doing to the marine life,
such as dolphins, whales, and their delicate sonar?
Right, the sonar is an entirely different subject.
There is a new generation of long range sonars
they've been testing for about three, four years now.
If you've ever stood at the end of an airport runway
and listened to the big jets coming in,
these sonars are 500,000 times louder than a 747
1,000 feet over your head.
They are unbelievable loud, they're inconceivably loud.
One of the tests,
they had a submarine
just outside the bay at San Diego,
and they had another submarine at Diego Garcia,
on the other side of the world in the middle of the
Indian Ocean and they heard each other.
Are you saying this is a separate project?
Completely different technology.
So, the technology that you're speaking of,
in terms of this tomography, has nothing to do
with any disturbance of the creatures under the water,
or does it?
Two different things?
I think we're in five different subjects at this point.
Okay, we probably are.
Let's just narrow it back down.
I can answer that question and that'll just
give us another subject to talk about.
We'll save the environmental aspect until later.
You were going back to the beginning of the project.
The beginning of the project, and again,
going back further into the Russian--
Yeah, the Russians, right.
What I was setting up here, is that
this appears to be Star Wars.
This appears to be a ground based Star Wars weapon system.
At the beginning of Star Wars, the Russians freaked out,
they totally freaked out, because what this would do is
this would shift the balance of power.
We'd always had MAD, mutual assured destruction.
This would shift the balance of power to give us
a first strike capability.
The Russians really does not want us to have
When it looked like if we could shield ourselves from them,
we could just blow them away.
Reagan promised, as a way to smooth
the ruffled feathers of the Russians,
he promised, "We'll share it with you.
"Whatever we find, we'll just pass onto you guys."
The head of the Russian space program
was brought in at the beginning of HAARP.
Clearly indicating that there was a connection here.
DARPA, who was asked initially to start this project,
DARPA started holding a series of seminars
at a number of universities and military think tanks
around the country.
The Russian head of their space program,
their equivalent of NASA commander, came over
and was in several of these conferences.
We were passing the idea to them at that point in time.
So, we have the implication, not only, of our own
university system in the military, but also the
Russian science community behind this civilian project.
The civilian project.
Nikola Tesla was absolutely the greatest genius
of his generation, possibly of his century.
We're looking at a time frame
of the turn of the last century.
Right.
Early 1900's.
He started about
and worked through to--
It's a great story, but it's a long story.
Can you shorten it
sense we have so much to cover?
Most of his work was about a 30 year period,
from about 1880 to about 1912.
His greatest inventions were alternating current.
The civilization we live in runs on AC power.
When you plug into the wall,
that's AC that you're getting out.
Prior to Tesla, the electrical theory said
you couldn't use AC.
They knew it existed, but it was like it was too dangerous,
it was too crazy.
They didn't have the technology to work with.
They said no, it's a mad man's idea,
and everything was being done in direct current.
Thomas Edison though was given
the credit for that one.
Thomas Edison was powering New York City
with power plants that were ten stories tall
by an entire city block and they could run
about a square mile.
Tesla came in, put one power plant at Niagra Falls
and powered the entire state.
Almost put Edison out of business.
In fact, the multi-national corporation
GE, General Electric, was created by Edison,
to lease the rights to Tesla's AC patents.
Of the 46 basic patents in AC,
Tesla holds 45 of them.
(laughing)
And yet he wasn't
given credit for them.
Exactly.
On top of that, Edison is given credit
for having invented the light bulb.
He was on the golf course.
What had happened was is
Tesla had developed 16 different types of lighting
and had his laboratory brilliantly electrically illuminated
and he had a contract with George Westinghouse.
George Westinghouse is a very famous name.
Many of us have Westinghouse appliances.
Westinghouse was an inventor himself
and owned this production company to build his gizmos.
He worked out a deal with Tesla that
Tesla would do the science, figure it out,
and then Westinghouse could make all the gimcracks
he could think of.
Edison realized that these guys were going to get
an electric light bulb on the market any day now.
He put his laboratory on round the clock crash program.
Find it, find something I can get on the market.
He did succeed and one of his guys did find it.
The name of the guy who invented the electric light bulb
is lost to history.
There is a notation in the Menlo Lab's
account ledger that $5 was paid out to someone
as a bonus for finding the light bulb,
(laughing)
but they didn't record who.
As well as that, Tesla also invented--
Radio Frequency.
Exactly.
I wanted to get into that next.
Tesla also discovered radio.
The very first demonstration of radio
was a radio controlled boat
in a pond at Madison Square Garden.
Why does Marconi?
What happened was, is Marconi went to Tesla,
Tesla is, I think, about this time in his late 20's,
early 30's, Marconi is in his early 20's.
he goes to Tesla and says,
"Mr. Tesla, you're the greatest genius of the age.
"I so admire your work. Can I please work for you?"
Tesla said, "Well, sure. Cool.
"There's a table,"
and Marconi worked for him for about nine months
and copied everything.
Pure industrial espionage.
He stole everything he could out of the lab,
all the intellectual property he could get his hands on,
he walked off with, got funding, invented his own radio.
Tesla sued him at the United States Supreme Court and won
with the U.S. Supreme Court ruling that
Marconi had pirated 14 of Tesla's patents.
The question is, is HAARP Tesla technology?
Well, HAARP is radio. That's Tesla Technology.
HAARP uses direct current,
so it's not directly.
Another aspect of this is that HAARP
is designed to effect the ionosphere,
which Tesla did not believe existed.
Tesla, at the time it was discovered by Oliver Heaviside,
and it was called the Heaviside layer.
Tesla did not believe the Heaviside layer existed.
He's been proven wrong on that.
Tesla did come up with the idea that directly sending
electrical energy into the stratosphere,
which is the zone between,
weather happens in the troposphere,
and then there's the stratosphere
which is where the ozone layer lives,
and then above that is the ionosphere.
Tesla thought that by sending the electricity
into the stratosphere, you could actually get it to glow.
He thought, well, we don't need street lights.
We could energize the air over cities at night.
It's a little bit like Tesla,
and a little bit not like Tesla.
Okay, let's come up to current time.
This array is still under development,
this array of antennas.
What are, now, we've talked about the heating
of the ionosphere, what are some of the other applications,
and again, you've already talked about military applications
in terms of communications, what other potentials
are there in this?
The official, what it's being paid to do,
is inject energy into the top of the atmosphere
to mimic what the sun does.
The sun has these ongoing nuclear explosions
and it is an ongoing nuclear furnace,
and it has these coronal ejections.
The sun has these solar flares that are blowing
great quantities of energy at the earth.
When the solar flares, when the bits of charged atoms
arrive at the atmosphere, it impacts the atmosphere.
It hits the ozone layer and does things.
One of the things they're trying to do with HAARP
is inject energy into the atmosphere in a spot
where they can train their diagnostic instruments on it
and they can see what it does.
One HAARP reviewer said what they wanna do
is kick mother nature in the pants
and see what she does.
Wise.
That's one of the reason's it exists.
Another, again, is to do this earth penetrating tomography.
Which, if they can get it to work,
HAARP is going to bathe about 80% of the globe
in extremely low frequency radiation that will penetrate
a mile or two deep, that if they got the right guys,
with the right equipment, in the right spot,
they can find and monitor enemy underground bases
where they manufacture and launch
of weapons of mass destruction.
This is the primary thing it was funded for.
I know it sounds like science fiction,
but that's why it's there.
From what my understanding is,
there's another area that sounds
even more like science fiction
in that it broadcasts, these ELF waves,
broadcast at basically
a human biological--
That's where I was going.
Level of the brain. Okay.
You were asking me about applications.
Yes.
We haven't got to downsides yet.
Another application, another thing
it's officially funded for is communicating
with deeply submerged submarines
by tuning the electrojet.
Tuning the electrojet means you are actually
working with a big earth system.
You're actually effecting the earth's magnetic field,
and again, you're doing it by creating these ELF's,
extremely low frequencies.
The point you brought up
and the one that made the light bulb go on over my head
when I heard about HAARP was that these two technologies,
earth penetrating tomography and talking
to deeply submerged submarines,
both involve bathing the earth in ELF
at exactly the same frequency that the human brain works at.
My first thought was if it is exactly what it says it is,
do they have any biological scientists on the program?
No.
There's nobody on the program who has any clue
what this technology, what kind of technology,
how this technology will effect living things.
They did an environmental impact study
and the environmental impact study said,
"Oh, no problem. Go for it."
So, they don't have anybody on board officially.
I thought in terms of unintended consequences,
if you are beaming radio frequencies
at known brain entrainment frequencies.
Explain the word entrainment.
The human brain is a radio transceiver.
It emits a weak radio signal
and has been shown to be effected by external radio signals.
That's entrainment.
There are a lot of these brain boost
and instant meditation machines.
They use a number of technologies.
There are some that use flashing lights,
some that use acoustic
tones that are embedded in music
and you put on the headphones and you listen to this.
Some use direct electrical stimulation of the brain.
They put electrodes on you
and the electrodes send a signal into the brain
and the brain mimics that.
It goes into harmony.
It gets tuned to it and you can dial your mental state.
You can roll yourself up to a very agitated level,
or drop yourself down into levels that are good
for accessing deep seeded memory, lucid dreaming,
you can do some pretty wild things with this stuff.
If we're gonna put a brain entrainment machine
on the heads of everybody on the planet simultaneously
and not know we're doing it, this could have
some really unintended consequences.
Then, on the other hand, if they do know what they're doing.
I was going to ask that next.
Is it possible there are intended consequences
and what might that be?
I spend a lot of pages in my book
on the history of mind control.
Mind control goes back to the 1880s.
Virtually all the sciences that we use today
all had their births between 1840 and 1880
and psychiatry, psychology,
those were born between 1840 and 1880.
As soon as they got the idea
that we may have a handle on how the mind works,
they immediately starting using it,
well, how can we control the mind?
Governments have invested billions of dollars
in finding ways to control the mind.
The Soviets were real
leaders in that--
They were.
During the Cold War, but the U.S.
wasn't far behind, were they?
It depends on who you listen to.
The head of the CIA,
one of the heads of the CIA, Cohen, told Congress,
"I need more money to do mind control
"research because the Soviets are ahead of us."
Five years later, the next head of the CIA tells Congress
we are doing wonderful, we're way ahead of the Soviets now.
Maybe we caught up.
The Soviet research started in
the late 1920s or early 1930s,
and one of the early experiments they did
was hypnotizing someone, giving them a command phrase
that would then have them do something,
and then trying to use radio
to trigger them at a distance.
I thought, HAARP could be an
amazing improvement on that idea.
One of the things that we know
that both the Soviets and the U.S. were working on
were sleeper agents, hypnotic sleeper agents.
You may have seen the movie Telefon with Charles Bronson.
He's a hypnotic sleeper agent.
He's just a normal guy and he gets these phone calls,
and when the phone call happens,
the command phrase is triggered
and he goes off and, I think in the movie
he was assassinating people.
One scenario proposed by a professor at
Colgate Institue, Colgate University,
Dr. Estabrook.
Dr. Estabrook, at the time, was like America's
leading expert in hypnosis.
He suggested to the U.S. Army that what they could do
is they could infiltrate a few hypnotists
into key positions in the enemy territory, like dentists,
and you have these dentists who are your hypnotic doctors.
All their patients who come in,
they don't just get an extraction,
they get hypnotized, given a command, given a program,
given something to do, put LSD in the water supply,
or blow up the train tracks, and they're sent out.
Of course, you have to bring them back every six months
to get their teeth cleaned
and the command instructions reinstalled in them.
Now, how does this potentially
interface with HAARP then?
Over a period of time, you got these guys,
you got a hundred doctors hypnotizing everybody
who comes into the office for 20 years,
you got a hundred thousand, a million soldiers,
waiting to be activated.
Well, how do you activate a million soldiers at once?
Today, we have these demon dialers that you can
ring every phone in the neighborhood simultaneously
and a recorded message can hit all your neighbors at once,
but they didn't have that back in the '50s,
they didn't have that back in the '60s.
When they were developing this technology,
we're looking at how are we gonna do this?
HAARP may be able to transmit words.
If you're sending a signal that's at the same frequency
that the brain picks up,
you may be able to send emotions or words.
If you can send words, you can send the command phrase.
You could send your command phrase out,
and then all your sleeper soldiers go off
and do their thing all simultaneously.
I admit that's speculation,
but it is a known desire
and a known technology that fulfills the desire.
And there is a history for this desire
because of previous research in the mind control.
And published research, it's not just wild speculation.
This stuff is in the scientific literature.
It's an openly published literature in scientific,
medical journals, and in
declassified military papers.
So, we have the potential that large populations
of people could be targeted with this frequency
and maybe tweak it a little bit
or send certain pulse or information through it?
Yeah.
That's one of the things I look at
at great length in the book.
I spend about a hundred pages on it.
I'd been studying mind control for a decade
before writing the book.
When I read what HAARP was capable of doing,
I immediately said, well this is the long sought
holy grail of mind control,
is a way to be able to get an entire continent all at once.
Even if you can't get words out,
you can get emotions.
What if you could spread road rage
across an entire continent?
You could hit the Russians or the Americans
with a violent emotion and they rip their cities apart
and kill each other and you just pick up the pieces.
The mind control element has a potential both,
again, as a civilian project, and as a military project.
Yup, you know, one of the things I kind of lost
when you were asking about the civilian aspect of this,
is that there are these international treaties.
There are a lot of international treaties
that U.S. is signatory to
and there are several of which
if HAARP were a military operation,
if would be a violation of.
Before George W. Bush became President,
we were signatories to the ABM treaty.
The ABM treaty allows each side to have one type
of over-the-horizon radar.
The over-the-horizon radar specified in the treaty
cannot do certain things.
It has to stay in a conceptual box.
HAARP breaks the box. HAARP is steerable.
One of the rules is it cannot be steerable.
HAARP has the potential to be used as an
over-the-horizon radar.
This is in the early literature on it.
Then they went, "Oh. Oh, dear."
This is a civilian project suddenly, right?
Right. Also, because HAARP does
have potential to effect weather.
It's a rather distant potential, but it's still here.
We are signatories to a treaty
that prohibits using the weather
as a military weapon.
That's another treaty that they really didn't wanna
get anybody upset about.
It was just easier to make it a civilian science project.
One of the things is that a lot of the universities
that wanted in on the project, had strict rules
about not working on military projects.
Another way they got around it,
they could get some of these ivy leagues
to join in on the project is,
"Oh, it's not us. We're not doing that."
On the other hand, it clearly is a military project
that is wearing a civilian dress.
So, we have this military project,
we've been speaking about the various applications,
and we've talked a little bit about the potential downside,
in terms of it operating in the spectrum of the human brain.
What are some of the environmental potential downsides?
One concern is migratory fowl.
HAARP is designed to have an impact on the electrojet,
which is in the magnetic field, and may have a
centergistic effect on the magnetic field itself.
Now, migratory water fowl use the magnetic field
as their way of travel.
In their nose, they have an organ.
In our ear, we have this little hollow with a ball in it,
and the ball rolls up and down,
and we can tell whether we're standing up or sitting down
by where the ball is.
Well, some geese have a similar one in their nose
with a ball of magnetite.
Magnetite is a magnetized metal.
This little ball of magnetite that rolls around
in their nose, and they have a built in compass.
We mess with the magnetic field,
we could be sending all the Canadian Geese off to Jamaica.
(laughing)
Also, the human brain has been found
that every brain cell has magnetite in it.
When you run into somebody who says,
"I have a perfect sense of direction, I'm never lost,"
they probably are telling you the truth,
which means we could all end up walking into walls,
in theory, if the magnetic field goes blooey.
Another aspect of this is that we do know
that for at least 5,000 years
the earth's magnetic field has been declining,
it's been losing strength.
It looks like we may be in the beginning stages of
a pole reversal, or a pole shift.
We know that many pole shifts have occurred
throughout the life of the planet.
Pole shifts are devastating to living things
because the magnetic field is
part of what keeps solar radiation off of us.
If the magnetic field goes down,
then more radiation will get through to us
and we will have more cancers, leukemias, or just die.
How does HAARP interface, potentially, with that?
Because HAARP is going to be effecting in the region
of the magnetic field, we don't really know
whether it's gonna have an effect or not.
They did an environmental impact study and said,
"Not gonna have any effect at all. Don't worry about it."
The environmental impact study was incredibly flawed
and probably should be regarded
as authoritative as toilet paper.
Kind of junk science,
you're saying?
Exactly.
Very much so.
It did not address any of the aspects of HAARP in use,
beyond the actual towers.
Again, HAARP is a field of antennas,
in which this field of the antennas are at the top of--
the field is these towers.
They're 72 feet tall with crossed
antennas at the top of the towers.
They measured, okay, if you're gonna walk
around on the ground under the towers,
are you gonna get fried?
That's what they measured.
That's the entire, that's the long and the short
of the environmental impact study.
They did address the migratory water fowl
in that they didn't want them flying into the towers
so they put colored streamers on the guy wires.
That's the environmental mitigation
that was involved in HAARP.
This has an awful lot of implications,
it sounds like.
Yes.
To living organisms, certainly in a
military application level, etc.
So, why are we not hearing anything about this project
be it civilian or military?
You know, that's a really, really good question.
If you find out the answer, please tell me.
I was talking to a TV producer last night.
He had worked up a treatment
and he was pitching a pilot for a show.
He wanted to do a segment on HAARP
and another segment on
did we have prior knowledge of Japanese attack
in Pearl Harbor in December of '41.
The answer he got back from the network he was working with
was they didn't wanna do prior knowledge in Pearl Harbor
because it's too much like 9/11,
and they don't wanna destabilize the public's opinion
of the government.
They didn't want the public to get the idea
that maybe the government had something to do with 9/11
if they had something to do with Pearl Harbor.
He said, "Okay, I can understand that.
"What about HAARP?"
"No comment."
"What do you mean no comment?"
"Sorry, no comment.
"We're not gonna talk about that."
There's something going on out there.
It's not just not being covered,
it's not being covered.
What is a person watching this segment to do
if they have now been alerted to the fact
this project exists and they have some concerns?
Well, they can do an internet search.
There are about five or six books on the subject.
There are a lot of websites out there
that have information on it.
There is the old write your congressman.
Does your congressman
even know about the project?
I doubt it.
I'm sure he's gonna take what his aids tell him about it,
and the aids are gonna say,
"Hey, it's nothing. Don't worry about it.
"They're just conspiracy nutcases."
When you look at a project this large,
you would think this would take a very large
amount of funding from our Congress,
appropriations from the Congress.
Is that not how this is being funded?
Actually, this is an amazingly cheap project.
To date, in the 11 years they've been funding the project,
they still have yet to break the 300 million mark.
This is one of those things where the DOD,
the Department of Defense, is getting
a lot of bang for its buck.
If this thing works, it's gonna be a
weapon system that'll be the
cheapest damn thing in the arsenal.
That's another reason why it's actually delayed,
because when George W. Bush came in, they defunded it
because there wasn't all that good kickback.
There wasn't all that good pork in it.
He put the defense budget on anti-missile missiles.
This shoot a bullet with a bullet nonsense.
The system can't work.
They have done tests and all the tests have been fudged.
They demonstrate, "We can shoot down a
"missile with a missile,
"but we have to know when the missile is gonna launch,
"and we have to know where it's going,
"and it has to have a homing beacon on it."
(laughing)
The crazy thing is, is that the Department of Defense
now has its own missile base and it's 26 miles from HAARP.
Just down the road from HAARP is Fort Greeley,
and that's where all of the United States defensive
anti-missile missiles are being sent.
Makes you wonder what it is they're really trying to defend.
Okay, let's say it doesn't work to write
to our Congressman, then what?
I wish I knew.
Frankly, I've been studying this for almost eight,
ten years now, and I really don't have a clue.
I'm very, very hopeless on this,
because what I realized in writing the book
was that there are some very, very fundamental questions
that our society needs to ask.
One of these fundamental questions is,
is there a flaw in the way we fund and conduct science?
Right now, we are conducting science in the interest
of the government and in the interest of
multinational corporations.
Maybe the science will produce something that's a benefit
to our culture, and maybe not.
Another question I found myself asking is,
how does a democracy defend itself from its own milititary
and covert agencies?
if HAARP is a covert project in some ways,
and it looks to me like it is a classic
compartmentalized operation,
each unit knows what it needs to do
to get its part of the job done,
and often doesn't know that there are any other units,
much less what they're doing.
The guys on the ground in Alaska are radio frequency
and ionospheric scientists
and their doing radio frequency ionospheric science.
You talk to any of those guys and they are like,
"You're crazy if you think we're making a weapon here.
"We're just finding out how the ionosphere works."
That may well be the truth,
but on the other hand, the HAARP side is designed
to be operated remotely.
It's designed so that you have the grunts on the ground
turning on the equipment and watching the dials,
and the scientist, who's actually conducting the experiment,
could be in Bolivia.
So, how do they know?
How do the guys on the ground know
that they are not being misused by military scientists
coming from some military lab?
They don't.
And none of us
as citizens know--
None of us do either.
There's no way we can find out.
Some of the things about HAARP that I find suspicious
is that supposedly it's all civilian and above board
and you can learn anything you want,
but they haven't updated their website
in almost three years.
You can learn anything you wanna know
as long as you don't wanna know anything current.
On that note, I think we're going to
have to leave it to some of the brilliant people
that are viewing this interview to see how far
we can take it to find out more.
Right, and one of the things that I'm concerned about
with civilians trying to figure this thing out is that
most of us never learn about the black budget,
about the black projects.
There are tens of thousands of research projects
being run right now.
We hear about HAARP and we go, oh, one size fits all.
There is this going on, and HAARP's responsilbe for it.
Back up just a sec.
Most people don't know what the black budget is,
if you wanna just explain briefly what is the black budget.
That funds all of these
types of--
In theory,
Congress has the power of the purse.
In theory, Congress can tell the military,
"We want you to build this
"and we're gonna give you X amount of dollars to build it."
If the military says, "We don't wanna build that."
They just say, "Hey, we're your bosses, you build it."
This is what Ted Stevens says,
that he forced the military to build HAARP.
On the other hand, the military,
and particularly the covert agencies, they want stuff,
and they don't want to be restrained from having the stuff.
If the subject interests you, try doing an online search
under HAARP, and that's spelled H-A-A-R-P.
There are also several books on the subject out there,
and finally, you might want to check
with your local legislator as to an update on the project.
To look at the new technologies that extend from the various
applications of radio frequencies,
check out our interview with Dr. Begich.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(Orchestral music playing)